# CS499Databse

My artifact that shows my skills with working with a mySQL database is from my DAD 220 class that I took at the beginning of my Computer Science program in 2018. The artifact was a collection of screenshots showing my ability to modify and navigate a mySQL database. I lost access to this database when my class ended however, I created a new database with mySQL that is used in my ePortfolio. The original screenshots show my ability to add data to a table, add columns to a table, update and delete data from tables using mySQL. 
	
The reason I chose this artifact was because it shows that I can successfully navigate a mySQL database. I can perform searches within the database and narrow the information that is displayed. For example, I am able to search employees and display only their name and job title, while information on their age and gender isn’t displayed. This would be useful in displaying public information on a website while keeping more confidential information private. I am also able to create new tables, and this would be useful if a company started a new project that required information to be stored in a database. This artifact also shows that I can modify existing tables to add new columns if a new data type is required or to update a table for when data changes. For example, the table that stores information on company vehicles needs to be updated based on the status of the vehicle for when it’s in use, available or in the shop being worked on. I improved on the original artifact by creating a new database because the original artifact used an existing database. I created the tables from the data from scratch as well. This shows more advanced concepts of mySQL by creating everything instead of just modifying the data. 
	
My goal for this artifact was to be able to create a database, create tables, and modify those tables by adding and modifying the data. I was success in all of my goals, I created a database named company that has a table for employees and a table for company cars. After creating both tables I populated each with data and then added a column to each of the tables. I then updated the tables for the new columns adding information for each employee and vehicles that pertained to the new column. 

Through the enhancements of my database artifact I learned that it is important to keep documentation on projects. For example, the original artifact contained screenshots of commands and what the commands were used for and why they were being used. This was useful when creating everything from the ground up because I had not used mySQL in almost two years. I was able to read my own notes and description of what each command I used. I also learned that with any coding it is important to practice because there was a lot that I had forgotten since the original artifact. While it was easy to pick back up, I still had to review my notes to remember what I needed to do to modify and update a mySQL database. 
